honestly um i just really lack reverence
for human life
and anything that we do that just
prevents more children from being born
i'm kind of in favor of
i kind of just want to kill children
well we can slaughter
i mean we don't have to slaughter them
if that's the case we don't have to
slaughter them while they're in the womb
we can just slaughter babies
um if it was legal to do that um just
newborn babies to just put them in the
grinder like we do with
the male chicks yeah you know what i
think i'd kind of
be okay with that um i actually wish my
parents had done that to me
okay so just so we're clear i just wanna
i just want this to be fully clear to
everyone
um as well as just internally you know
registering this for yourself
yeah yeah yeah if it were legal to
take newborn babies and put them on the
grinder
put them on the same way we could do
with male chicks and grind them up
and use them for organic fertilizer for
the organic plant industry
um you wouldn't have a uh you wouldn't
have an issue with that you would just
stay taken yeah i'd actually support
that i really don't like people
just personally uh okay just because
they're like crazy
yeah i know a lot of people might think
that's crazy but yeah
yeah i actually had wished my parents
had aborted me um there's
i i've known a lot of people too with
ish like i
this is just my own bias but um yeah i
mean
i think a lot of people just be better
off death well richard like just because
you would have like let's grant that you
wish your
parents would have aborted you do you
now think that
all the other newborn humans don't have
the right to not
be chopped up to pieces
um i don't know man i
i really just would rather there be far
far less people in existence
like massively reduced are you okay with
doing it
to um are you okay with doing it to baby
animals
no okay name the trade
um less annoying um
yeah so if if the wait
so what about the what is it about the
humans that are annoying to you that the
animals are not
i don't know like what about the baby
humans like yeah honestly um
that the sound of therefore i have i
actually have
a uh fear of children like
i i think it's called pedophobia where
i'm actually
like terrified of children it's one of
my biggest fears yeah
okay but um yeah i mean it's not a great
justification
obviously oh it's one of the worst
justifications you can possibly
come up with but um yeah it's it's
it's level zero karma's level if i could
be honest with you but so
i mean yeah like i mean i'm just
answering because you asked
um so let me just ask you so let's say
um
you know if you had this let's say you
had this fear of
um chickens right let's say you just had
this chick this male chick phobia
do you think like we should you think it
should be like legalized now do you
think we should continue the
legalization of taking male chicks and
just chopping them into grinders
no no okay name they name the trait well
first of all you can't
okay so you've contradicted yourself
yeah
just because you asked i'm answering uh
i'm not saying that's a morally
consistent position or justification or
anything
um but uh no just because you
asked i answered yeah yeah but um do you
well i'm asking for your view
like like i'm not so i'm not asking if
you like feelings i'm asking like what
do you believe
is the right or wrong thing like do you
believe right
well yeah i mean okay so i thought you
were asking like
why i i'd prefer one over the other not
okay um no what the right or wrong thing
would be
yeah what do you think yeah i like i'd
have to
concede that if you had adequate
knowledge beforehand
before having consensual sex of the
potential risks involved
yeah i think i'd have to concede at this
point that um yeah if you do end up
getting pregnant you have a
responsibility to the child
abortion in the year 2019 it's the
debate
we didn't want to have in 1919 or 1959
so we're
still having it now and look it up
all around the world there are countries
where abortion still remains in a legal
gray area where it's still an unresolved
question
i was raised in canada i was taught
again and again that somehow canadians
were morally superior to americans
because we'd legalized abortions whereas
americans had not
and that is a lie canada the united
kingdom's many countries around the
world
the debate rages on precisely because we
never have done what the people of
ireland did
we never made the commitment to
democratically deciding the issue
through a referendum and once you commit
to deciding the issue through a
referendum
by the same token you're going to commit
to through public education
engaging with people caring about their
beliefs their perceptions their
misconceptions
and trying to solve the problem at that
level really reaching out to and
engaging with the people
who have the passionate conviction that
abortion
is morally equivalent to murder people
who really believe that mothers should
go to prison
as criminals if they decide to have an
abortion
now i understand that perspective i
understand it because it's not entirely
false
it's clinging to concepts that are
true but misleading and those are
important
misconceptions to try to counter in the
public
and in this case even though i feel the
left wing
basically has come to the correct
conclusions they've come to the correct
conclusions
through reasoning that is completely
false
dishonest and internally incoherent
okay so let's let's let's deal with that
first the argument i've heard
just today from the young turks
left-wing news source
you will have heard this from
left-wingers your whole lives probably
the argument i've heard from the
left-wing today
is that abortion is simply a medical
operation
between a woman and her doctor and that
therefore the government should have no
role in it whatsoever
this is laughably outrageously
ridiculously wrong and yet of course if
you look at it as just a single stage
of analysis if you look at it as an
isolated fact
there's a sense in which it's
self-evidently true yes
abortion is a surgical procedure
but that's not what we were debating was
it
okay yes having your tonsils removed is
a surgical procedure
yes having breast implants breast
augmentation is a surgical procedure
does that mean that there's absolutely
no role for government law legislation
or public policy on these things
does that mean that if breast implants
were illegal that you would object
on the same grounds that this is a
violation of women's rights today the
young turks
today they claim that this is morally
the same as rape
because it's interfering with what a
woman wants to do with her body
they actually made that claim so you
know the fact that
some breast implants are legal and some
are illegal
more famously that some forms of bum
enlargement
this kind of surgery are legal and
others are illegal that's in the news a
lot because some people got those
procedures and some people
died you know the fact that those
decisions are made
in the public interest of public welfare
by the government the fact that actually
there are myriad laws
even gov governing whether or not you
can have your tonsils removed this is
this is already one thing that's
incoherent and dishonest with the
argument
even if we were to accept the premise
that there was
no more ethical significance to an
abortion than there is to having your
tonsils removed
we would still have a question of
responsible public education and public
policy
of trying to reduce the number of people
having their tonsils removed surgically
every year we still say well look
what is it is it a strep throat epidemic
is it lack of hygiene
is it food standards why is it that so
many people are going to hospitals
having their toss removed is there is
there a misconception that you'll be a
better singer if you have your tonsils
removed
you have to do public education and tell
people stop getting what is it we have
to do step by step so we have a we have
a society
where there are as few tonsils being
removed as possible
where in fact the ideal number of
tonsillectomies of tonsil removing
surgeries
the ideal number is actually zero and
we're never going to achieve that
but let's admit this is something that's
bad and wrong and a problem
and that we're engaged in public policy
training laws that is the position
that is unthinkable to the left wing and
the mainstream left
the mainstream center left because
they've been avoiding
the real ethical cultural and
even legal problems raised by by
abortion
by trying to insist one that it's simply
a type of surgery and then two
any legislation interfering with it is
violating a woman's
right to just privately decide this with
her doctor and the shame of it is
as i say the left wing has basically
come to the right conclusion
that yeah the simplest solution this
problem is to legalize abortion
and try to have public education
campaigns making uh birth control
more available indeed even making uh
adoption
more available making alternatives more
available to try to minimize
the number of abortions in society but
on the other hand the conservatives and
the right wing
are clinging to the simple notion that
abortion
is a form of infanticide
and that also regarded in isolation
is indeed a fact i think every society
in the history of the world
has had one form of socially sanctioned
legally acceptable infanticide or
another
and in our society here and now when
children are born with very serious
mental and physical disabilities
i think we should have infanticide
permitted for some number of months
within some limits for some conditions
even after
the birth of the child it's a
tremendously scary and saddening thing
to take responsibility for
but again you can confront people with
this moral question
well if you really believe that this is
murder
if you really believe that under any
circumstances having an abortion under
any circumstances
committing infanticide is murder who is
going to raise those children
is it you and if not you
then who
in the year 2019 the legality of
abortion
is a tremendously simple issue made
complex and convoluted
by the dishonesty of people on both
sides of the debate
the dishonesty i feel stems from a
fundamental discomfort
with democracy itself very few people
on the left or right are really
interested in democracy
democracy in the sense handed down to us
from ancient athens
democracy in the sense practiced by the
people of ireland
when they had a vote on the issue when
they had a referendum when they
determined through direct democracy
whether abortion should be legal or
illegal
that is ultimately the decision that we
all have to make
society by society state by state
whatever the case may be
and if we make the decision
democratically then we all have to be
tremendously concerned
about public education about the level
of enlightenment and understanding
that the general public has as is
applied to this issue
because the public lacks a certain level
of education or enlightenment on the
issue
that it's going to have terrible
consequences for us all
that's one of the fundamental virtues of
democracy as opposed to an elitist
despotism
if you live in an elitist despotism you
can just decide well
this is the right answer a small number
of people in power
make that decision and then the rest of
us live with the consequences
and it doesn't matter what percentage
the general public fail to understand it
have an ethical or other objection to
the idea
today in the united states of america
only 18 percent of people take the view
that under absolutely no circumstances
should abortion be legal should abortion
be permitted
those people matter those people matter
too
if you sincerely care about democracy
about the future the democracy in your
country
you should care about reaching out to
and educating those people
engaging with them and getting them to
think beyond just a single stage of
analysis
now the term i just used may seem
unfamiliar
but it's really easy to understand i'm
vegan
we have similar and similarly flawed
debates about veganism all the time
matt dillahunty recently said that he
saw absolutely nothing wrong
morally with drinking cow's milk and he
said this because
uh drinking the milk itself doesn't kill
a cow
all right that may be true but that's
looking at only
a single stage of the process that's not
doing a full life cycle analysis
it's not even doing a 10-year analysis
okay so if you have a society
where 1 billion people drink 1 billion
liters of milk every day
why don't we go through an analysis of
what it takes to produce that milk
what it takes to have cows giving birth
to and maintaining the necessary number
of cattle
what those cows eat and the sewage
they're going to generate and what
happens to that sewage because it
doesn't go into the sewage system
it pollutes the rivers and lakes and
oceans and so on and so forth
you look at a cycle of suffering that's
being perpetuated by
forcibly inseminating cattle keeping
them in confinement etc etc now
it's very obvious it's very obvious
and yet someone a so-called philosopher
a leader of
political opinion like matt dillahunty
he spent decades of his life
believing in this simplified single
stage of analysis that in a sense is
true
the problem isn't that it's false the
problem is it's
true but misleading all right
now i think the most sincere position
adopted by the right-wing conservatives
in this
which is again in isolation true is that
they will say
abortion is an act of infanticide
and that is true but that is only a
single stage of analysis
i knew one young man who was
um what we call a crack baby his mother
used cocaine
during the pregnancy in fact i met him
in canada it was on his living can as a
kid
his family ran away from the city they
were living in the united states
something like chicago i forget to try
to get away from the drug scene they
were trying to quit
uh when she found out she was pregnant
she was trying to quit
ran away to a new city escape the circle
of friends and familiar dealers you can
imagine
there's a psychological as well as
practical element to that
and um he had brain damage and physical
damage from his mother's drug use and he
said you know he was haunted by this
idea that he was himself born to be a
drug addict
you know to some extent that's
scientific and to some extent i think
that's a bit of a folk tale
so on and so forth um
he's got to live with the consequence of
that for the the rest of his life and
today
these things are a lot easier to put
together partly just due to the
technology of youtube
you can put together case studies and
testimonials and real examples and you
can share them with the public educate
the public
about the real consequence of these
things in the past lawyers had to go
around and find people
who were willing to testify in front of
congress or in front of parliament
depending on what country
and then newspaper writers would report
on that and then people would just be
looking at the dry
text of this in newspaper not seeing the
physical reality of what it is to raise
a kid
who's brain damaged or disabled due to
the the drug addiction
and with that guy i met he was he was
one of the lucky ones you know he you
know
he had use of of all of his uh arms and
legs and so on
he was an interesting guy he was a nice
guy but you can imagine that was a
chilling and very interesting influence
for me in my life
meeting someone who's whose whole life
was shaped by the drug addiction of his
of his parents um
that's not something that is maybe going
to happen
that's something that is inevitably
going to happen
the united states has an epidemic of
drug addiction
um at the moment i think it's
extraordinary the level of addiction to
painkillers to opiates
and there are women who are going to get
pregnant
and are going to continue using opiates
continue using cocaine continue using
heroin
continue drinking alcohol and so on
during the pregnancy
and a lot of those women currently have
abortions
if you make abortion illegal because of
this
single stage of analysis the isolated
principle
that abortion itself is an act of
infanticide
let me ask you do you
want to raise those children
do you want to take responsibility for
raising the child
of a drug addict and let's say again not
too hypothetically
the drug addict abandons that child to
be a ward of the state to be left in an
orphanage
if not you then who
i have a daughter my daughter is six
years old
um we gave birth to the daughter of my
daughter in a hospital
and i've mentioned this before the ward
we were in
basically was the healthy babies award
but still you're only there
you know if you really have no problems
you leave you leave five minutes after
you give birth
so a lot of people had some mild health
problems i
because we were vegan i had to go out
and buy food for my wife and carry it in
and i would come up the stairs
in the next ward next next section of
the hospital
and those are the families dealing with
really bad news
those are the families who had babies
where the heart was
outside the body at the time of birth
born with a hole in their heart
you know hole in their spine babies that
were going through
you know surgery and guess what
some of those families some of them knew
the baby had a serious malformation
before it was born
some of them had the option to abort
and if you say but abortion is
infanticide
i would say back that's true
but that's only a single stage of
analysis
and in the whole history of the world
every society every society i know of
has had formally or informally
some capacity for socially sanctioned
for acceptable
for legal infanticide which could indeed
include
situations like a child being born with
its heart
outside of its chest these kinds of very
serious
physical and mental deformities now
i would not merely vote to make
abortion legal so i i do think abortion
should be legal that's what i would vote
for
i would vote to make infanticide legal
within certain clearly stated limits i
think people can give birth to a child
and realize
wow this child is so physically impaired
or so mentally impaired
that you know and again very often
you're looking at
complex surgeries the moment after the
child is born to reconstruct its head
reconstruct its mouth reconstruct
its heart and so on and yes i do
think that responsible adults parents
it's another question who should make
the decision and so on
this needs to be legislated carefully
maybe for the first six months after a
child is born
there should be the option to euthanize
to to genuinely
commit infanticide to spare that child a
life
with those physical or mental
deformities
it's a decision i take very seriously
but taking those decisions seriously
is what democracy is all about as
tempting as it might be for me to just
drop the mic there
i think i should say a little bit more
about how morally incoherent
the left wing's position on this is what
i hear from the left
just today i was hearing it from the
young turks left of center
podcast news show what i hear from the
left is the insistence
that the surgical operation itself is no
different
from a woman having her tonsils removed
single stage of analysis
and then they build on this premise the
idea
that any intervention by the state
whatsoever actually today the young
turks
they they said that it was rape they
said it was morally tantamount to rape
for the government to legislate anything
that would constrain what a woman
can or cannot do with their own body um
okay sorry you know there are laws that
govern having your tonsils removed
did you know that i can't just go in and
decide to have my tonsils removed
because i think it would look cool or
make me sing better there actually are
laws on that
um there are laws very specifically
about what women can and can't do to
their bodies
some breast implants breast augmentation
some breast implants are legal
and some are illegal in the united
states most of the surgeries to make
your bum
bigger to make your bum are illegal and
you may have heard about this some women
fly to other countries
where they don't have that legislation
in place so yes there are always going
to be laws
governing what surgeries people can and
can't have under what circumstances
even when the surgeries do not have any
of these
ethical cultural or religious questions
attached to them i don't know of any
religions
that attach a special significance to
keeping your tonsils in your throat
i think it's an open question the
morality of breast augmentation this
topic for another video
um but yeah that debate isn't over there
are signs now that there are really
serious health consequences negative
health consequences from breast
augmentation
and probably that debate needs to be had
again probably needs to be voted on to
what extent
which surgeries are are permissible
which are not
here's the thing what the left wing is
refusing to do
is acknowledge even if we were just
talking
about removing your tonsils because of
tonsillitis
it would still be a morally positive
virtuous and pure position to say
that you aspire to have a society in
which
the fewest people possible get their
tonsils removed
to say hey you know what th this this
operation
it's it's bad it's a bad thing in a
perfect world nobody would have to have
the tonsils removed
and we've got to look at all the
policies and procedures we can put in
place so that there are
circumstances that avert this whether as
few as possible
and so that there are alternatives all
right that
really is the morally responsible
attitude to take towards
abortion and nobody can do it because
nobody's willing to get past this single
stage of admitting
yes abortion is a form of infanticide
and therefore you know you know there
are all kinds of alternatives there are
alternatives that include the child
being given up for adoption
there are alternatives that include
making contraception
as available as possible and the public
being as well informed as possible
etc etc uh there's a whole series of
policy choices you can make
that are going to minimize the number of
accidental and unwanted pregnancies
and yeah you know some of them though
some of them are coercive um
you know again when you think about it
when you think about women who
you know may be legally insane maybe
mentally impaired maybe drug addicts
maybe a combination of all three you can
sometimes get
you know one woman like that is
repeatedly getting pregnant and
repeatedly having abortions
there are tough decisions and and legal
questions they say okay well at what
point
do we start really legislating people
have to take responsibility
for their own uh reproduction
and when they fail to at what point you
say look we have to really incentivize
people
to take this responsibility and take it
seriously because we don't want to be a
society
with x billion abortions happening per
year we want to be a society that a
judicious way
through public policy is minimizing the
number of abortions okay
now one of the reasons why i'm so
familiar with all this is that it's
closely comparable to discourse we have
within veganism
okay if you come to the conclusion that
everyone should adopt a vegan diet it's
a good conclusion
but people come to that conclusion
through incredibly
flawed circuitous and wrong
courses of reasoning one of the most
common they say oh well
all life is sacred therefore they're
vegan
i don't believe that you know i'm a
nihilist i don't think any life is
sacred
human or animal but i'm vegan because
it's the right thing to do
because i'm interested in people taking
responsibility for the consequences of
their actions
and making the world a better place all
right legalizing
abortion which countries like canada
have not yet done
countries like the united kingdom
england have not yet done
society is carrying on a very
hypocritical way if you really believe
in democracy
you should press don't press for the
status quo
press for outright legalization right
now in the united states of america
you should be pressing for a referendum
on a constitutional amendment
to legalize abortion should do it
democratically you don't you don't want
supreme court justices making the
decision
stop and think why do you why do you
call a judge in court
you know my lord
[Laughter]
it's a court think about the meaning of
the word court this is a medieval
futile aristocratic arrangement
this is not democracy you don't want
judges deciding this for you you want to
decide this democratically
and as soon as you commit to a
democratic solution this problem then
you're going to commit to public
education
lobbying involving people even the
backward people of arkansas
the people who are most committed to
making abortion illegal you're going to
involve them in this discourse to
legalize abortion
um you have to understand
that the commitment to legalizing
abortion
is not going to be the end of the
struggle no more than
the commitment to legalizing abortion
would end
adoption or would end drug addiction or
end the myriad other social problems of
indeed
rape incest that intersect
with this issue okay you're not going to
solve all of them with one law
and you're not going to solve all them
with one stroke with a pen and there's
going to be an ongoing discourse
about how we as a society can better
educate and prepare people
of both genders so that we have the
fewest unwanted pregnancies possible
so that we have the fewest abortions
possible i mean really
people like to disrespect my crew but
the fact is that you know my name and i
don't know you